# Translation Manual (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Academy** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Academy* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Academy* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Notes that Clarify the UST Translation (id: 33353)

### Description

Sometimes a Note suggests a translation from the UST. In that case the text from the UST will be followed by “(UST).”

### Translation Notes Examples

He who **sits in the heavens** will sneer at them. (Psalms 2:4a **ULT**)

But the one who **sits on his throne in heaven** laughs at them. (Psalms 2:4a **UST**)

The Note for this verse says:

* **sits in the heavens** — Here, **sitting** represents ruling. What he sits on can be stated clearly. Alternate translation: “rules in the heavens” or “sits on his throne in heaven” (UST) (See Metonymy)

Here there are two suggested translations for the phrase “sits in the heavens.” The first expresses clearly what “sits in the heavens” represents. The second gives a hint about the idea of ruling by stated clearly that he sits on his “throne.” This suggestion is from the UST.

And he saw Jesus, **fell on his face**, and begged him. (Luke 5:12b **ULT**)

When he saw Jesus, **he bowed down to the ground**. (Luke 5:12b **UST**)

The Note for this verse says:

* **he fell on his face** — “he knelt and touched the ground with his face” or “he bowed down to the ground” (UST)

Here the words from the UST are provided as another translation suggestion.

* **Associated Articles:** Metonymy (ID: `33293@UWTranslationManual`)

