# Translation Manual (unfoldingWord)

**unfoldingWord® Translation Academy** © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license. *unfoldingWord® Translation Academy* has been adapted in the following languages: Tok Pisin, Arabic (عربي), French (Français), Hindi (हिंदी), Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia), Portuguese (Português), Russian (Русский), Spanish (Español), Swahili (Kiswahili), and Simplified Chinese (简体中文) from *unfoldingWord® Translation Academy* © 2022 unfoldingWord. Released under CC BY\-SA 4\.0 license by Mission Mutual



--------------------------------

## Introduction to Publishing (id: 689646)

### Publishing Overview

Once a work has been uploaded to Door43, it is automatically available online under your user account. This is referred to as self\-publishing. You will have access to a web version of your project at https://door43\.org/u/user\_name/project\_name (where user\_name is your username and project\_name is your translation project). Both translationStudio and translationCore will give you the correct link when you upload. You can also browse all works on https://door43\.org.

From your Door43 project page you can:

* See the web version of your project with default formatting
* Download documents of your project (like a PDF)
* Get the links to the source files (USFM or Markdown) for your project
* Interact with others about your project
* Continue to edit and improve your project and keep track of all changes

For more about distributing your project to others, see Distribution.

* **Associated Articles:** Introduction to Distribution (ID: `689647@UWTranslationManual`)

