# Translation Manual (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Manual (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Academy_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Grammar Topics (id: 727922)

Grammar has two main parts: words and structure. Structure involves how we put words together to form phrases, clauses, and sentences.

**Parts of Speech** \- Every word in a language belongs to a category called a part of speech. (See Parts of Speech).

**Sentences** \- When we speak, we organize our thoughts in sentences. A sentence usually has a complete thought about an event or a situation or state of being. (See Sentence Structure).

* Sentences can be statements, questions, commands, or exclamations. (See Exclamations).
* Sentences can have more than one clause. (See Sentence Structure).
* Some languages have both active and passive sentences. (See Active or Passive).

**Possession** \- This shows that there is a relationship between two nouns. In English it is marked with “of” as in “the love of God,” or with “'s” as in “God's love,” or with a possessive pronoun as in “his love”. (See Possession).

**Quotations** \- A quotation is a report of what someone else has said.

* Quotations normally have two parts: Information about who said something and what the person said. (See Quotations and Quote Margins).
* Quotations can be either direct quotes or indirect quotes. (See Direct and Indirect Quotations).
* Quotes can have quotes within them. (See Quotes within Quotes).
* Quotes can be marked to make it easy for readers to understand who said what. (See Quote Markings).

* **Associated Articles:** Activo o pasivo (ID: `727902@UWTranslationManual`); Parts of Speech (ID: `727944@UWTranslationManual`); Posesión (ID: `727947@UWTranslationManual`); Citas directas e indirectas (ID: `727949@UWTranslationManual`); Quote Markings (ID: `727950@UWTranslationManual`); Citas dentro de Citas (ID: `727951@UWTranslationManual`); Sentence Structure (ID: `727954@UWTranslationManual`); Sentence Types (ID: `727955@UWTranslationManual`); Quotations and Quote Margins (ID: `728109@UWTranslationManual`)

