# Translation Manual (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Manual (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Academy_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Notes with Definitions (id: 728021)

### Description

Sometimes you may not know what a word in the TPL means. The Notes may have a definition or a description of the word or phrase to help you understand what it means.

### Translation Notes Examples

Simple definitions of words or phrases are added without quotes or sentence format. Here are examples:

> It is like children playing in the marketplace, who sit and call to one another and say, “We played a **flute** for you”. (Matthew 11:16–17 TPL).

* **marketplace** \- a large, open\-air area where people would come to sell their goods.
* **flute** \- a long, hollow musical instrument which is played by blowing air in or over one end.

> people who dress in splendid clothing and live in luxury are in **kings‘ palaces** (Luke 7:25 TPL).

* **kings’ palaces** \- a large, expensive house that a king lives in.

### Translation Principles

* Use words that are already part of your language if possible.
* Keep expressions short if possible.
* Represent God's commands and historical facts accurately.

### Translation Strategies

See Translate Unknowns for more information on translating words or phrases that are not known in your language.

* **Associated Articles:** Traducir palabras desconocidas (ID: `728080@UWTranslationManual`)

