# Translation Manual (unfoldingWord)

## License Information

**Translation Manual (unfoldingWord)** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Translation Academy_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/utw), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Notes that Clarify the TPS Translation (id: 728019)

### Description

Sometimes a Note suggests a translation from the UST. In that case the text from the TPS will be followed by “(UST)”.

### Translation Notes Examples

> He who **sits in the heavens** will sneer at them (Psalms 2:4 **TPL**).

> But the one who **sits on his throne in heaven** laughs at them (Psalms 2:4 **TPS**).

The Note for this verse says:

* **sits in the heavens** \- Here sitting represents ruling. What he sits on can be stated clearly. Alternate Translation: “rules in the heavens” or “sits on his throne in heaven” (UST) (See Metonymy and Explicit).

Here there are two suggested translations for the phrase ‘sits in the heavens.’ The first expresses clearly what “sits in the heavens” represents. The second gives a hint about the idea of ruling by stated clearly that he sits on his “throne”. This suggestion is from the UST.

> When he saw Jesus, **he fell on his face**. (Luke 5:12 **TPL**).

> When he saw Jesus, **he bowed down to the ground**. (Luke 5:12 **TPS**).

The Note for this verse says:

* **he fell on his face** \- “he knelt and touched the ground with his face” or “he bowed down to the ground” (UST).

Here the words from the TPS are provided as another translation suggestion.

* **Associated Articles:** Metonimia (ID: `727937@UWTranslationManual`)

